docs: Tanssi - Ethereum communication (#235)
moondance-labs/tanssi-docs: learn/tanssi/external-security-providers/symbiotic.md

    class Symbiotic custom-container
```

> ### Tanssi-Ethereum communication {: #tanssi-ethereum-communication }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Tanssi-Ethereum Communication {: #tanssi-ethereum-communication }
```

There are three key components between Symbiotic and Tanssi:

```mermaid
flowchart LR

Tanssi["Tanssi"] <--> Relayer 
Relayer <--> Gateway 
Gateway["Gateway"] <--> Middleware
Middleware <--> Symbiotic["Symbiotic"]

class Tanssi tanssiNode;

class Middleware middlewareNode;

class Gateway gatewayNode;

class Symbiotic symbioticNode;

class Relayer relayerNode;
```

1. **`Relayer`** - is the software that continuously monitors both blockchains and transmits messages. Enabling reliable bidirectional communication between Tanssi and Ethereum, serving as the connection layer that ensures messages are correctly delivered across networks

2. **`Gateway`** - operates on the Ethereum side of the bridge and serves three essential functions. It receives, verifies, and routes incoming messages from Tanssi to ensure they are correctly processed. The contract accepts outgoing messages destined for the Tanssi network, preparing them for relay. Finally, it handles higher-level application functionalities, most notably token transfers between the two networks, providing a secure interface for cross-chain asset movement

> 3. **`Middleware`** - is Tanssi's implementation for handling network events and operations. It is the critical link between the `Gateway` and Tanssi's core protocol

Reviewer: Do these need to be in order? To me it seems like we're just introducing the components, so it feels like it should be a bulleted list instead of something that is sequentially ordered

Author: The list is referencing the elements in the upper diagram, but I don't think it is necessary to have it in order

    class Symbiotic custom-container
```

### Tanssi-Ethereum communication {: #tanssi-ethereum-communication }

It is important to learn how Tanssi and Ethereum exchange data to understand the mechanics of the protocol. They connect through a two-way bridge that lets them communicate with each other. Each protocol has a specific job in making cross-chain operations possible.

There are the key components in this communication:

```mermaid
flowchart LR

Middleware <--> Gateway["Gateway"]

Gateway <--> Relayer

Relayer <--> Tanssi["Tanssi"]

Symbiotic["Symbiotic"] <--> Middleware

class Tanssi tanssiNode;

class Middleware middlewareNode;

class Gateway gatewayNode;

class Symbiotic symbioticNode;

class Relayer relayerNode;
```

> 1. **`Relayer`** - the relayer is the software that continuously monitors both blockchains and transmits messages. Enabling reliable bidirectional communication between Tanssi and Ethereum, serving as the connection layer that ensures messages are correctly delivered across networks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **`Relayer`** - is the software that continuously monitors both blockchains and transmits messages. Enabling reliable bidirectional communication between Tanssi and Ethereum, serving as the connection layer that ensures messages are correctly delivered across networks
```
To enhance the flow of the text, avoid repeating the same word in the description

> 2. **`Gateway`** - the `Gateway` operates on the Ethereum side of the bridge and serves three essential functions. It receives, verifies, and routes incoming messages from Tanssi to ensure they are correctly processed. The contract accepts outgoing messages destined for the Tanssi network, preparing them for relay. Finally, it handles higher-level application functionalities, most notably token transfers between the two networks, providing a secure interface for cross-chain asset movement

Reviewer 2: same here

> 3. **`Middleware`** - the `Middleware` contract is Tanssi's implementation for handling network events and operations. It is the critical link between the Gateway and Tanssi's core protocol

Reviewer 2: Same here

> The `Middleware` plays a central role in network coordination between Tanssi and Symbiotic. It distributes rewards to operators and vaults based on their network security and performance contributions. The contract sorts operators by stake to create a merit-based ranking system for validator selection. It transmits these sorted operator key lists to Tanssi to inform validator assignment decisions. The Middleware facilitates operator registration processes, manages validator set construction based on stake and performance metrics, and handles the reward and slashing protocols that maintain network incentive alignment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `Middleware` plays a central role in network coordination between Tanssi and Symbiotic. It distributes rewards to operators and vaults based on their network security and performance contributions. The contract sorts operators by stake to create a merit-based ranking system for validator selection and transmits the sorted operator key lists to Tanssi for validator assignment. Additionally, it facilitates operator registration processes, manages validator set construction based on stake and performance metrics, and handles the reward and slashing protocols that maintain network incentive alignment.
```

This is a suggestion to avoid repeating the word "middleware." If you'd like, you can choose to rephrase it in another way.

#### From Ethereum to Tanssi {: #from-ethereum-tanssi }

> The `Middleware` transmits validator set information to Tanssi for session assignment through the bridge. The `Middleware` sends details about active operators for each epoch, with these operators ordered by their total stake aggregated across vaults. Tanssi then uses this information to assign validators for upcoming sessions, ensuring that the most economically aligned operators secure the network. This mechanism creates a stake-weighted validator selection process where economic security on Ethereum translates to operational security on Tanssi.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `Middleware` transmits validator set information to Tanssi for session assignment through the bridge. It sends details about active operators for each epoch, ordering them by their total stake aggregated across vaults. Tanssi then uses this information to assign validators for upcoming sessions, ensuring that the most economically aligned operators secure the network. This mechanism creates a stake-weighted validator selection process where economic security on Ethereum translates to operational security on Tanssi.
```
Like the previous comment, this is simply a friendly suggestion for enhancing the overall flow.
